more than a month into the war on Gaza
we're starting with the coverage in the
US freedom of expression is under the
gun in the land of the free in the UK
Canada and Australia the journalistic
resistance starts with the basics the
terminology in
use and India is generating its own kind
of Gaza coverage it is one-sided and at
times
dangerous
hello I'm Richard gizbert as Israel's
ground Invasion enters a dangerous new
phase we're focusing on the one country
with the power to stop the Carnage in
Gaza the United States close to 11,000
Palestinians have been killed the UN has
called The War Zone a children's
graveyard the living find themselves
trapped among decaying bodies in the
debris American officials continue to
stand by Israel in public when the
cameras are gone their counseling
restraint or so they say the 4-Hour
humanitarian pauses that Israel put into
effect on Friday are what passes for
Progress that still leaves another 20
hours a day for the Israeli military to
bomb civilians fleeing their homes
across American news networks the
argument that Israel's Mass Slaughter of
civilians is a justifiable Act of
self-defense often goes unchallenged and
there has been far too little discussion
of a ceasefire some Us Media Outlets
though have produced powerful accounts
of this asymmetrical War but there is an
unmistakable undeniable chill with too
many voices silenced criticism of Israel
can keep you off the American Airwaves
out of print or even cost you your
[Music]
job Israel sees the parades in the
rallies for the ceasefire and they see
no parades and no rallies for the return
of the hostages or the removal of Hamas
the United States is the armor of Israel
the United States is the Diplomatic
protector of Israel and that's why the
discussion here matters a great deal
we're in a religious War here I am with
Israel do whatever the hell you have to
do to defend yourself level the place
there's actually two conversations
happening in the US there's a popular
conversation amongst people receiving
their information directly from the
ground they they the door of the
hospital and completely different
conversation amongst those who are
consuming their information from more
popular sources of media Gaza is not now
Under Siege Israel has been under siege
for 75 years to understand how biased
American media coverage of the war in
Gaza can be just turn on the television
you can see it in what is condemned and
what is condoned in who is the humanized
and who is not in what is questioned and
to what extent our newspapers our
journalists our cable news networks are
not pushing American officials enough
they're not asking them to condemn the
Israeli Prime Minister talking about
genocidal Biblical verses to justify
their military campaign the goal is to
destroy Hamas Hamas is creating these
casualties not Israel I I don't think
anyone's asking NE well some people may
be asking is real to apologize but
that's not what I'm asking about I don't
think to this day there is a single
editorial board um in the United States
that has actually called for a ceasefire
in spite of the Carnage you know you're
actually seeing some Israeli press take
stronger and Bolder stances as opposed
to newspaper editorial boards here in
the country that have more or less
fallen in line with what the state
Department's party line is you have seen
um American politicians like Marco Rubio
or Nikki Haley using genocidal language
of about Gaza and I'll say this to to
prime minister Netanyahu finish them
Marco Rubio said I don't think there's
any way Israel can be expected to
coexist or find some diplomatic off-ramp
uh with these Savages and neither of
those comments were treated with the
kind of shock they deserved to be
treated
with Americans were among those
horrified by the gruesome images they
saw on October 7th after hamas's attack
that killed more than 1,400 Israelis
since then too many in the US media have
been taking their cues from the Biden
Administration it's insistence that what
Israel is doing despite the killing of
more than 10,000 Palestinians somehow
remains an act of self-defense almost
every military analyst has said that a
ceasefire could give Hamas that
opportunity to regroup and Carry Out
Future attacks and we saw more than 2/3
of Americans now want a ceasefire it is
is a growing movement that is
insufficiently reflected in the
mainstream media commentary which often
draws the line well short of that what
about Israeli officials that I that I've
talked to about these calls for a
ceasefire they say that just gives Hamas
time to regroup interviewees tend to
repeat the Israeli media's talking
points on Hamas hospitals and human
Shields the storing of Munitions all
kinds of explosives under hospitals
under refugee camps under civilian
targets the use of civilians uh as
really just tools of War um by Hamas
those are claims that Israel has made
many times before but have never been
verified on the question of
representation and who gets to be heard
a body speaking for Arab and Middle
Eastern journalists says it is deeply
troubled by reports the journalists of
Middle Eastern descent are being
sidelined from report reporting or
commenting on the current War while
suggestions for nuance and precise
language in reporting are being ignored
in
newsrooms there's not necessarily you
know this red line that editors have
that you know you're not allowed to say
this or you're not allowed to say that
there is a culture of fear in our
institutions here about talking honestly
and freely about this because whenever
something that sheds light on human
rights violations committed by Israel
there's usually a massive push back
campaign and people are afraid of it
newspapers like the New York Times And
The Washington Post have done an
admirable job um of reporting uh on
what's going on in Gaza I've seen plenty
of Stories of the coverage of Civilian
harm in Gaza cable television by
contrast you know because of the sort of
nature of cable TV it's sort of short
segments kind of favoring sound bites
the sort of type of analysis you're
getting there is just truncated and
often um
misinformed when taking in the coverage
of Gaza or even scrolling through their
social media Americans should consider
who they are not hearing from voices
that have been silenced journalists who
have been fired over the positions they
have taken online they include a New
York Times magazine writer who signed a
joint letter opposing the Israel Gaza
war was questioned by her editor about
that and ended up resigning after the
editor of Harper's bizarre magazine
tweeted that Israel's cutting off power
to Gaza was inhuman the Magazine's
parent company Hurst banned its
employees from expressing personal
political opinions on social media this
goes beyond news outlets into the art
world the new york-based magazine art
Forum fired its editor-in chief after he
signed a petition calling for a
ceasefire one that neglected to condemn
hamas's attack on October 7th it seems
like the top
Executives of these uh corporate media
Outlets are actually in a pitched battle
with the producers who want to tell a
different story I have been blacklisted
by several outlets as I've been told by
producers my Clips have also been
censored and even though they've aired
live have not been posted on their
websites the explanations for it is that
I either made the anchor look bad or
that I'm too advoca none of the reasons
provided have to do with I said
something that wasn't true or I was uh
inflammatory in any way it was literally
other reasons in order to craft a
particular kind of story where we can
express empathy for Palestinian lives
but not point the finger about why they
are being killed in a genocidal campaign
and who is doing
it to express support for Palestine
brings many different risks it risks you
um being ostracized within the broader
media World it risks you not getting uh
career opportunities it risks you being
on the front page of a tabloid newspaper
um you know and labeled a terrorist
sympathizer and that is reflected in
both the coverage from the last month
and also the broader climate of
repression that we have seen in so many
different areas of public
life after almost a month of locking the
international media out of the war zone
and then disputing the reporting of
Palestinians inside Gaza Israel finally
allowed some Western journalists to
enter this past week under certain
conditions the reporters have to be
embedded with Israeli forces that act as
their protectors
and ultimately their editors as a
condition to enter Gaza under IDF escort
Outlets have to submit all materials and
footage to the Israeli military for
review prior to publication I applaud
CNN and others were at least telling
their audiences that their information
is filtered by the Israeli State CNN has
agreed to these terms in order to
provide you the viewers a limited window
into Israel's operations in Gaza but I
think that should have done more to push
back against the conditions that first
that they had to be embedded with the
Israeli military and that second none of
their coverage would be published
without the approval of the state so
literally all that's filtering out is
State propaganda the population will be
able to go from the north to the South
surely and all freely in order to get
the IDF do what it need to do in order
to do demolish Kamas and I think here
it's incumbent upon audiences to
exercise scrutiny why why is Israel
preventing a Foreign Press from entering
Good Morning America on ABC News where
they said this was a rare short and
quite intense opportunity to see what
the situation is like in Gaza on the
ground it's only rare if you are
overlooking all of the journalism from
inside Gaza going towards the violence
not away from it through unbearable
conditions to actually bring the world
these stories I just was
to give water to my
grandma and right
here a house there around three dozen
journalists inside Gaza have been killed
reporting through unimaginable
personal emotional trauma losing their
families and to
erase all of that is very very shameful
and when you close your eyes at night
what is it you think about that is not
to dismiss some quality American news
coverage of this war and its impact on
Palestinian civilians this CNN interview
with a nurse who worked in Gaza will
stick with viewers there were children
with just massive burns down their faces
down their necks all over their limbs
and because the hospitals are so
overwhelmed they are being charged
immediately after and still US News
output is pulling its punches on the
scale of the killing the mass
displacement the crimes against humanity
in examining this war perhaps Americans
need to reflect on some of their own
Colonial history to remember that all
colonizers including Americans started
out by occupying the land of the other
the fact that for most Americans they
cannot critically examine Israel also
represents their own blind spots of
understanding themselves as living
within a settler racial Colony as
benefiting from white supremacy on lands
that are still colonized and not seated
by over 500 indigenous Nations
everything that we can critique
Americans for failing to see in the
humanity of Palestinians reflects their
own inability to see
themselves so Palestine here is not an
exception the rule is a colonial
framework and a liberal understanding
that somehow we've overcome colonialism
which is not true we continue to exist
in an enduring Colonial
reality the vast majority of mainstream
news outlets in the US are corporate
owned elsewhere in the anglosphere
though publicly funded broadcasters are
taking heat over their coverage of the
Gaza story and some of that as Nick mad
explains comes from within
first up Richard is the BBC in the UK
Ramy Rim the Network's correspondent in
Beirut sent an email to director General
Tim Davy expressing his concerns he
argued that historical context and
significant information including expert
opinion that Israel's actions could
amount to genocide was either entirely
missing or not being given due
prominence when Davy failed to reply to
that email rayim shared it with the rest
of his colleagues at the BBC in Canada a
lawyer journalist had similar things to
say about cbc's coverage he interrupted
a speech the network CEO Katherine Tate
was giving you are not telling the truth
as an organization about the genocide
happening in Gaza before the eyes of the
world in Australia more than 200
employees at ABC met to point out issues
again over terminology and the Network's
Reliance on Israeli military's talking
points they also called out ABC's
refusal to use certain terms such as
occupation apartate and genocide even
Invasion but just back to the UK for a
moment and an instance of Journalism
that Rose to the challenge Channel 4's
sakander kamani was embedded with the
Israeli military in Gaza when they came
across Palestinians fleeing the
bombardment we're not allowed by the
military to go any closer Israeli
soldiers can prevent journalists
embedded with them from interviewing
gazan refugees what they cannot do is
stop those news organizations from
working with Palestinian reporters to
tell that side of the story footage
filmed on the salahudin road by
Palestinian journalists gives you a true
sense of scale and showcasing the scale
of this tragedy is something Channel 4
has been very effective in doing thanks
Nick Israel's hasbara campaign its PR
effort to win diplomatic backing and
shape public perception is an overdrive
these days not that it's really needed
in places like India prime minister
Narendra Modi has been crystal clear
clear in his backing of this war New
Deli says it sees it as an act of
counterterrorism and self-defense just
last month when the UN voted in favor of
a humanitarian pause India abstained
Indo Israeli relations have been on the
upswing for the past few years now the
image of Israel is a Hightech prosperous
nation that survives in a region
populated by quote unquote enemies
resonates with many Indians and they've
been showing their support through posts
online rants on television with some
disinformation thrown in to skew how
this conflict is understood the
listening posts minak shiavi now on the
pro-israeli messaging that's coming out
of India and why it
matters Israel is at War we didn't want
this war it was forced Upon Us in the
most brutal and Savage way 2 days after
Hamas Fighters burst out of Gaza and
carry out one of the most audacious
attacks on Israeli territory prime
minister Benjamin netanyahu's office
posts this video online Hamas will
understand that by attacking us they've
made a mistake of historic proportions
within minutes the message has thousands
of shares and replies numerous Israeli
posts demand netanyahu's resignation but
there's another set of messages from
Indians and they are all in so the
responses from Indian accounts have been
extra Ary to say the least sometimes
they put up posters in which they say we
stand with Israel sometimes they put
Graphics of two hands in a clasp painted
with Israeli and Indian Flags sometimes
theyve just tried to reflect on how this
conflict in Gaza mirrors the kind of
challenges that India faces security
wise when we try to understand why is
there such a widespread interest in
India with respect to this particular
conflict one of the things is a shared
experience of ter terrorism when October
7th happened hamas's attack on Israel in
India almost immediately parallels were
drawn with the 2611 experience which
were a major terrorist attack happening
on the Indian city of Mumbai in 2008 to
me it had a lot of shades of our own
2611 uh when you had terrorists coming
from Pakistan on boats and uh uh
creating the rampage that they did this
major space that Israel suddenly started
to occupy in the Indian imagination was
because that common threat was found the
same radical
jihadist islamist terrorist
thinking that Israel is a victim of we
are a victim of as well Israel is
fighting this war on behalf of all of
us Israel is fighting this war for you
and me new delhi's support for Israel
was Swift and unequivocal prime minister
Narendra Modi tweeted in solidarity an
Indian news Outlet as though on Q went
on a war footing themselves channels
that just a few months earlier had not
seen fit to send their journalists to
cover unprecedented violence in India's
Northeastern State of Manipur they
dispatched reporters all the way to
Israel heavy bombs are being used right
now to take out the Hamas leadership and
you know there is collateral damage
proclamations of Vengeance and calls for
Mass killing were issued from Indian
news
Studios policy
1 for
[Music]
one the coverage I think has been
extremely sensationalist and
dramatic there was a reporter who was
asked to quiet down by Israeli soldiers
because of how loudly he was trying to
cover what was happening then there's
another reporter from a channel who was
reporting from a paraglider after
reports came out that Hamas crossed the
border on
paragliders there's also been
misinformation shared by Indian news
channel there was a video of a group of
people carrying what looked like a dead
body but when they put down the person
the person got up and walked away so
this uh video was shared with the claim
that Palestinians are faking the death
of the victims but this video turned out
to be from 2020 and it was shot in
Jordan uh during Co lockdown and it was
by a bunch of people who were trying to
flout the the lockdown rules whereas in
the past Israelis would send out
disinformation or their talking points
and they they would land on American and
British mainstream media platforms now
you have large Indian accounts
amplifying this just a few days ago a
BJP leader addressed a rally and he
invented a set of of his own
[Music]
lies and then lamented about the kind of
small pockets of support that some
Indian Muslims have shown or displayed
for Palestinians uh in India and he
asked them do you want Hamas to come to
India this is how hate and
misinformation works you keep repeating
something again and again again and
again that you know there is Islamic
Terror and how Israel is trying to
protect itself and then there is a
Muslim threat in India and how Hindus
are trying to protect themselves and if
you keep repeating this there comes a
time when people who are consuming this
or who may be misinformed when they see
that Muslims are treated with a lot of
violence they can one justify it or two
just say that they deserve it so what
happens is that you take away how a
normal human being would react to
someone who is facing violence and this
is essentially what hate and
disinformation achieves modern day India
and the state of Israel came into being
within a year of each other India
through its independence from British
rule in 1947 Israel through its
expulsion of Palestinians and the
establishment of the state in 1948 on
the question of Palestine India's
independence leaders Mahatma Gandhi and
jawaharlal nehu they were vocal in their
support in 1936 when Palestinian rose up
against the British and their push for a
Jewish State Neu compared Palestine with
India under colonial rule he talked
about a gross betrayal of the Arabs by
British imperialism Palestine was not an
empty land it was well populated with
little room for large numbers of
colonists is it any wonder that the
Arabs objected to this intrusion a
little more than 10 years later when the
United Nations voted to create the state
of Israel there were only three non-arab
countries that voted against that
resolution
India was one of them times have changed
so have the
geopolitics historically speaking I mean
I'm refering to the post 1947 era which
is when we got Independent India and
Israel haven't really had a very nice or
cozy relationship that you probably see
now that has come after 2014 which is
when Prime Minister Modi has come to
power
shom oh what a great great day great day
and of course one of the reasons is that
both these countries have nationalistic
governments and that perhaps is one of
the ideological uh reasons why uh you
know the relationship has taken off so
relations between you know India and
Israel did not start with Narendra Modi
but what happens in 2014 is Modi and
Netanyahu meet properly officially at
the UN General Assembly in New York and
they agree at that moment to quote tear
down the remaining walls between the two
countries India purchases around 50% %
of all weapons sold by Israel per year
and India is also beginning to
co-produce weapons and they're working
in agriculture they're working in Tech
they're working in cyber security 2017
was the first time that an Indian Prime
Minister actually traveled to Israel and
you see a kind of an um you know upgrade
in the relations ever
since
in the past month India has reaffirmed
its support for the establishment of a
Palestinian State the so-called
two-state solution uh towards
establishing a sovereign independent and
viable state of Palestine New Delhi has
also sent medical and disaster relief
Aid to gazans how much of that made it
pass the Israeli blockade and into the
strip is not known the war is a big
story in India and as it rages on it is
folding into another even bigger
domestic story India is going into a
huge election next year and this issue
will serve as a way to consolidate the
Hindu nationalist base in India it
serves Modi very well electorally to be
seen as close to Israel as a country
that's able to put Muslims in their
place but it's also about modernizing
the state the BJP has pushed this
narrative that in order to be a strong
militaristic Global player it had to be
close to Israel all this rhetoric around
minorities and the domestic sentiment
with respect to minorities I think it is
really not understood well and it is
often you know foreign media that falls
for a certain kind of narrative and that
leads to a rather skewed understanding
of how Indian societies actually operate
I think it is too soon to tell how this
war will will play out when it comes to
um elections in India next year but
there are already po that are claiming
you know you have to stand up against
Islamic terrorism otherwise what would
happen in India is what is happening in
Israel so for Hindus to protect
themselves from this threat is to
reelect Prime Minister
Modi just one final note those of you
watching on YouTube may have had to jump
through a few Hoops to see our latest
reporting having to sign in because of
age restrictions or simply not being
recommended our content now there are a
number of reasons for that but one of
the biggest has to do with advertisers
companies that don't want their ads up
against images of the suffering that
this war has produced we are not going
to change the way we cover this story
just to please an algorithm so if you
value our journalism please share it it
is more important than ever that these
stories are heard we'll see you next
time here at the listening
post